---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "vyos_dhcp_service Resource - terraform-provider-vyos"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  IPv4 DHCP Server Global Config https://docs.vyos.io/en/latest/configuration/service/dhcp-server.html. This is a global config, having more than one of this resource will casue continues diffs to occur.
---

# vyos_dhcp_service (Resource)

[IPv4 DHCP Server Global Config](https://docs.vyos.io/en/latest/configuration/service/dhcp-server.html). **This is a global config, having more than one of this resource will casue continues diffs to occur.**



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `failover` (Block List, Max: 1) VyOS provides support for DHCP failover. DHCP failover must be configured explicitly by the following statements. **In order for the primary and the secondary DHCP server to keep their lease tables in sync, they must be able to reach each other on TCP port 647. If you have firewall rules in effect, adjust them accordingly.** (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--failover))
- `host_decl_name` (Boolean) Will drop `<shared-network-name>_` from client DNS record, using only the host declaration name and domain: `<hostname>.<domain-name>`.
- `hostfile_update` (Boolean) Create DNS record per client lease, by adding clients to /etc/hosts file. Entry will have format: `<shared-network-name>_<hostname>.<domain-name>`.
- `listen_address` (String) This configuration parameter lets the DHCP server to listen for DHCP requests sent to the specified address, it is only realistically useful for a server whose only clients are reached via unicasts, such as via DHCP relay agents.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The resource ID

<a id="nestedblock--failover"></a>
### Nested Schema for `failover`

Required:

- `name` (String) A generic `name` referencing this sync service. **`name` must be identical on both sides!**
- `remote` (String) Remote peer IP `address` of the second DHCP server in this failover cluster.
- `status` (String) The primary and secondary statements determines whether the server is primary or secondary.

Optional:

- `source_address` (String) Local IP `address` used when communicating to the failover peer.


